---
slug: nutgram-4
title: Nutgram 4 🚀
authors: sergix44
tags: [nutgram, symfony, major, release]
---

We are thrilled to unveil Nutgram 4.x, an exciting update packed with new features and improvements to enhance
your Telegram bot development experience. Here's a closer look at the key changes:

### PHP 8.2

To ensure a smooth transition, make sure to update your dependencies as now is required PHP 8.2.0 or greater. This
higher requirement unlocks new capabilities and improvements, so be sure to prepare your environment accordingly.

### Endpoint Signature

One of the significant changes in 4.x is the conversion of all endpoint signatures from an array to named
parameters. This update enables the convenient utilization of named parameters and improves parameter sorting. Mandatory
parameters now come first, followed by optional ones, while the `$clientOpt` parameter, if present, will always be
placed at the end.

For example, previously, you might have used:

```php
$bot->sendMessage('my text', [
    'disable_notification' => true
]);
```

In 4.x, has to be changed to:

```php
$bot->sendMessage('my text',
    disable_notification: true
);
```

### `->group` Method

The group method has undergone modifications in its usage. Previously, it accepted the middleware as a parameter, but
now the middleware is set using the middleware method. Update your code to reflect this change:

```php
$bot->group(function (Nutgram $bot){
    // Your handlers here
})->middleware(Middleware::class);
```

### Enums

In 4.x, we have converted Attributes (Class with constants) to Enums. If you were directly using the value
before, you will now need to use `->value` to obtain the raw value. This change has a medium impact and should be
addressed during the upgrade.

### Laravel Support Moved to a Separate Package

With the latest update, we have separated the Laravel support into a new package called `nutgram/laravel`.
You have to install this package using Composer:

```bash
composer require nutgram/laravel
```

To streamline the integration process, the previous package, `nutgram/nutgram`, is now included within `
nutgram/laravel`. Once you have `nutgram/laravel` installed, you can safely remove `nutgram/nutgram` as it is already
incorporated.

These high-impact changes require your attention to ensure a seamless transition to 4.x. Be sure to update
your code accordingly to take full advantage of the new features and improvements.

We encourage you to explore the [complete upgrade guide](/docs/upgrading/from-3.x-to-4.x) and review the changes in the
repository on GitHub.
Upgrade now and elevate your Telegram bot development to new heights. Happy coding!